Today we will take a look at the JSN-SR04T and A02YYUW Waterproof Ultrasonic Distance Sensors.  We will see how they work outside, and we’ll even test to see if they work underwater (spoiler alert - they won’t!).

Article with code: https://dronebotworkshop.com/waterproof-ultrasonic
More articles and tutorials: https://dronebotworkshop.com
Join the conversation on the forum: https://forum.dronebotworkshop.com
Subscribe to the newsletter and stay in touch: https://dronebotworkshop.com/subscribe/

When we think of ultrasonic distance sensors, chances are we are thinking of the popular HC-SR04. After all, it’s simple to use, it works pretty well, and it is very inexpensive.

But while the HC-SR04 is a great sensor for indoor use, it isn’t really suitable for use outdoors. It is susceptible to dirt, it’s relatively fragile and, most importantly, it isn’t waterproof. 

So today I’ll be examining a couple of ultrasonic distance sensors that are fully waterproof. They also are more advanced than the HC-SR04, as they are both capable of calculating the distance measurement by themselves, without the aid of a microcontroller or microcomputer.

The JSN-SR04T is an interesting sensor for a number of reasons. First, it uses a single transducer, instead of a separate transmit and receive transducer. Second, the transducer is attached to the main circuit board with a 2-meter cable, allowing you to mount the waterproof sensor remote from the non-waterproof board. And third, it actually has six modes of operation.

The A02YYUW looks a bit like a large, rubberized HC-SR-04 in that it has a separate receive and transmit transducer.  But that’s where the resemblance ends. This is a smart sensor that outputs serial data, and it can run on 3.3 or 5 volts.

We’ll hook up both sensors to an Arduino Uno and write some simple code to use them. And, as the JSN-SR04 and A02YYUW both use the same format of serial data, we can even reuse the same sketch for both sensors!

Here is the table of contents for today’s video:

00:00 - Introduction
01:33 - How Ultrasonic Distance Sensors Work
04:37 - Look at the two sensors
05:50 - Using the JSN-SR04T Version 3.0
13:12 - JSN-SR04T Mode 0 Sketch & Demo (HC-SR04 Emulator)
18:01 - JSN-SR04T Mode 1 Sketch & Demo (Serial Data)
21:13 - Using the A02YYUW
26:06 - Outdoor Tests
28:18 - Underwater Tests
30:00 - Conclusion

As always you’ll find an article accompanying this video where you can grab all the code I used, as well as pick up some more information.

Hope you enjoy the video!

Bill